now there are many things that I think
Dave Rubin says in this one video
rejecting socialism that are deeply
philosophically flawed disturbing and
the materials political science just
laughably wrong he says this is a
paraphrase but not far off the precise
wording that it's ridiculous to imagine
that we exist to do things for the
greater good that we exist to do things
for the greater good is totally
antithetical to the purpose of being
human he claims that this is
antithetical to being human itself that
socialism itself is incompatible with
with human nature now what does he mean
by socialism what does any reasonable
person mean by socialism
you can take the position that soft core
socialism is not truly socialism is not
worthy of the word you can take the
position that softcore pornography is
not truly pornography and it's not
worthy of the word but this is all a
matter of semantics I'm going to bring
in two very different witnesses to the
meaning of the word socialism one being
Bernie Sanders and the other being
Milton Friedman when Bernie Sanders was
asked around 2015 to 2016 which country
he considered a model of socialism for
the United States to emulate or what
what he meant by socialism when he said
he wanted the United States to be more
socialist he said Denmark no he didn't
just say this once that's why I say 2015
2016 it seems he doesn't say that so
much lately and various politicians in
Denmark and pundits and personalities
said in the press and respond to this
saying no no no Denmark is not a
socialist country now there is a sense
in which we can all agree Denmark is not
a socialist country and there's also a
sense in which we all know exactly what
Bernie Sanders is talking about from an
American perspective in pointing to
Denmark as a country that has higher
rates of Taxation dramatically better
Social Services in terms of health care
for the poor or employment services
what-have-you and as providing a working
model for the sort of hybrid economy
that Bernie Sanders thinks of when he
uses the word socialism positively their
ideas have never worked and will never
work because a system built on strip
our humanity is in direct conflict with
what it means to be human I think anyone
enjoys you know public sector
bureaucracy whether it's for education
or for the healthcare system or have you
but we know that if we give up on this
if we give up on the struggle to have
you know a democratic transparent public
education and public health care system
that is indeed pursuing the greater good
that's pursuing you know exactly what he
rails against if we give up on that then
we will live in a society where access
to education is based on the ability to
pay and that's immoral
we will live in a society where access
to health care is based on the ability
to pay where some people will get
treatment and some people will not on
the basis of their ability to pay so
what they're not telling you is that the
greater good is usually for the tiny
minority in the elite protected class
this depiction of the greater good as
something that's unknowable something
that's overly abstract and something
that ineluctably it's a tyranny is a
false fact all around the world it's
thanks to governments it's thanks to
socialism that poor people can access
education and can get into their jobs be
they humble or great that they have a
level of knowledge of science and they
are able to play a dynamic role in a
society in our economy that they would
not have if we live in a society where
access to education were entirely based
on their ability to pay were entirely
operated as a for-profit affair I don't
think Dave Rubin has a single thought in
his head when he puts together videos
like this I don't think he he meditates
on for one moment what the consequences
would be of preaching to a crowd of
hundreds of thousands or perhaps
millions that it is incompatible with
human nature to have any concern for the
greater good or that any I notion of the
greater good isn't this way a slippery
slope to tyranny
[Music]